web/js-journey/theory/00-basics/declaration.md, before:

# Declarations 
## Basics 
There are three way to declare a variable in JS:
- var: function scoped or globally-scoped
- let: block scoped 
- const block scoped

## Function Scoped and Block Scoped 
So what exactly is function scoped ? Function scoped means that a function scoped variable defined within a function won't be accessible ouside of function. Block scoped is the same, the block scoped variable defined within a block won't be accessible outside of it.

Let's have a small example: 

```js 
function foo(){
    if(true){
        var name = "JavaScript is funny"
        let age = 2000
        console.log("Inside a block: ", age)
    }
    console.log(name)
    console.log(age)
}
foo()
```

*Results:*
```
Inside a block:  2000
JavaScript is funny
/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_13_24.js:8
    console.log(age)
                ^

ReferenceError: age is not defined
    at foo (/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_13_24.js:8:17)
    at Object.<anonymous> (/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_13_24.js:10:1)
    at Module._compile (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1254:14)
    at Module._extensions..js (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1308:10)
    at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1117:32)
    at Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:958:12)
    at Function.executeUserEntryPoint [as runMain] (node:internal/modules/run_main:81:12)
    at node:internal/main/run_main_module:23:47

Node.js v18.15.0
```

## Redefining and Redeclaring features 
For variable declared with `var` can be redefined and redeclared anywhere in its scope 
```js
var x = 30
console.log(x)
var x = "hi"
console.log(x)
x = 12.3 
console.log(x)
```

*Results:*
```
30
hi
12.3
```

But for `let`, can be redefined within its scope but **not redeclared** 
```js
let x = 11;
console.log(x); //prints 11
x = "IB"; //works without any error
console.log(x); //prints "IB"

let y = 12;
console.log(y); //prints 12
let y = "Scaler"; // error: Identifier y has already been declared
```

*Results:*
```
/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_27_36.js:8
let y = "Scaler"; // error: Identifier y has already been declared
    ^

SyntaxError: Identifier 'y' has already been declared
    at internalCompileFunction (node:internal/vm:73:18)
    at wrapSafe (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1176:20)
    at Module._compile (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1218:27)
    at Module._extensions..js (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1308:10)
    at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1117:32)
    at Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:958:12)
    at Function.executeUserEntryPoint [as runMain] (node:internal/modules/run_main:81:12)
    at node:internal/main/run_main_module:23:47

Node.js v18.15.0
```

For a constant declared with `const`, it can't be redeclared or redefined within its scope and every const declaration must be initialized at the time of declaration.

## Summary

let, var, and const are three ways to declare variables in JavaScript. The main differences between them are their **scoping and mutability**:

    var:
        Variables declared with var are function-scoped or globally-scoped.
        They can be redeclared and reassigned within their scope.
        If a var variable is declared outside of a function, it becomes a global variable.

    let:
        Variables declared with let are block-scoped (i.e., scoped to the nearest set of curly braces).
        They can be reassigned but cannot be redeclared within their scope.
        They are often used in for-loops or other scenarios where you want to create a temporary variable that should not exist outside of a particular block of code.

    const:
        Variables declared with const are also block-scoped.
        They cannot be reassigned or redeclared within their scope.
        However, it's important to note that const does not make a variable immutable - it only prevents reassignment of the variable itself. 
        If the variable is an object or an array, its properties or elements can still be modified.

## Hoisting 
> Hoisting is a mechanism where variables and function declarations are moved to the top of their scope before code execution.

**Note: Read more about in hoisting.md** 

Here is the summary of how hoisting works for different declarations: 
- Variables declared using var are hoisted to the top of their scope and initialized with a value of undefined(special type).
- Variables declared using let are hoisted to the top of their scope but are not initialized with any value
- Variables declared using const are hoisted to the top of their scope but are not initialized with any value.

Some examples:

**For var** 
```js 
console.log(x); // prints undefined
var x = 100;
console.log(x); //prints 100
```

*Results:*
```
undefined
100
```

**For let**
```js 
console.log(y); //Reference error
let y = 200;
console.log(y); //prints 200
```

*Results:*
```
/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_103_107.js:1
console.log(y); //Reference error
            ^

ReferenceError: Cannot access 'y' before initialization
    at Object.<anonymous> (/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_103_107.js:1:13)
    at Module._compile (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1254:14)
    at Module._extensions..js (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1308:10)
    at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1117:32)
    at Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:958:12)
    at Function.executeUserEntryPoint [as runMain] (node:internal/modules/run_main:81:12)
    at node:internal/main/run_main_module:23:47

Node.js v18.15.0
```

**For const**
```js 
console.log(z); //Reference error
const z = 300;
console.log(z); //prints 300
```

*Results:*
```
/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_128_132.js:1
console.log(z); //Reference error
            ^

ReferenceError: Cannot access 'z' before initialization
    at Object.<anonymous> (/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_128_132.js:1:13)
    at Module._compile (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1254:14)
    at Module._extensions..js (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1308:10)
    at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1117:32)
    at Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:958:12)
    at Function.executeUserEntryPoint [as runMain] (node:internal/modules/run_main:81:12)
    at node:internal/main/run_main_module:23:47

Node.js v18.15.0
```

**More example** 
```js 
var a = 10;
{
    var a = -10;
}
let b = a;
{
    let b = -20;
}

console.log(b)
```

*Results:* `-10`

Commit message:

Update: Add "Implicitly Variable Declaration" section in declaration.md

web/js-journey/theory/00-basics/declaration.md, after:

**Table of contents** 
${toc}

# Declarations 
## Basics 
There are three way to declare a variable in JS:
- var: function scoped or globally-scoped
- let: block scoped 
- const block scoped

## Function Scoped and Block Scoped 
So what exactly is function scoped ? Function scoped means that a function scoped variable defined within a function won't be accessible ouside of function. Block scoped is the same, the block scoped variable defined within a block won't be accessible outside of it.

Let's have a small example: 

```js 
function foo(){
    if(true){
        var name = "JavaScript is funny"
        let age = 2000
        console.log("Inside a block: ", age)
    }
    console.log(name)
    console.log(age)
}
foo()
```

*Results:*
```
Inside a block:  2000
JavaScript is funny
/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_13_24.js:8
    console.log(age)
                ^

ReferenceError: age is not defined
    at foo (/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_13_24.js:8:17)
    at Object.<anonymous> (/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_13_24.js:10:1)
    at Module._compile (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1254:14)
    at Module._extensions..js (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1308:10)
    at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1117:32)
    at Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:958:12)
    at Function.executeUserEntryPoint [as runMain] (node:internal/modules/run_main:81:12)
    at node:internal/main/run_main_module:23:47

Node.js v18.15.0
```

## Redefining and Redeclaring features 
For variable declared with `var` can be redefined and redeclared anywhere in its scope 
```js
var x = 30
console.log(x)
var x = "hi"
console.log(x)
x = 12.3 
console.log(x)
```

*Results:*
```
30
hi
12.3
```

But for `let`, can be redefined within its scope but **not redeclared** 
```js
let x = 11;
console.log(x); //prints 11
x = "IB"; //works without any error
console.log(x); //prints "IB"

let y = 12;
console.log(y); //prints 12
let y = "Scaler"; // error: Identifier y has already been declared
```

*Results:*
```
/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_27_36.js:8
let y = "Scaler"; // error: Identifier y has already been declared
    ^

SyntaxError: Identifier 'y' has already been declared
    at internalCompileFunction (node:internal/vm:73:18)
    at wrapSafe (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1176:20)
    at Module._compile (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1218:27)
    at Module._extensions..js (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1308:10)
    at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1117:32)
    at Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:958:12)
    at Function.executeUserEntryPoint [as runMain] (node:internal/modules/run_main:81:12)
    at node:internal/main/run_main_module:23:47

Node.js v18.15.0
```

For a constant declared with `const`, it can't be redeclared or redefined within its scope and every const declaration must be initialized at the time of declaration.

## Summary

let, var, and const are three ways to declare variables in JavaScript. The main differences between them are their **scoping and mutability**:

    var:
        Variables declared with var are function-scoped or globally-scoped.
        They can be redeclared and reassigned within their scope.
        If a var variable is declared outside of a function, it becomes a global variable.

    let:
        Variables declared with let are block-scoped (i.e., scoped to the nearest set of curly braces).
        They can be reassigned but cannot be redeclared within their scope.
        They are often used in for-loops or other scenarios where you want to create a temporary variable that should not exist outside of a particular block of code.

    const:
        Variables declared with const are also block-scoped.
        They cannot be reassigned or redeclared within their scope.
        However, it's important to note that const does not make a variable immutable - it only prevents reassignment of the variable itself. 
        If the variable is an object or an array, its properties or elements can still be modified.

## Implicitly Variable Declaration 
There are cases when variables are assigned values without declaration, JavaScript will implicitly declares those variables for us. However, that variables are always created as global variables.

For example:

```js 
function x() {
  a = 23;
}
x()
console.log(a) // 23
```

## Hoisting 
> Hoisting is a mechanism where variables and function declarations are moved to the top of their scope before code execution.

**Note: Read more about in hoisting.md** 

Here is the summary of how hoisting works for different declarations: 
- Variables declared using var are hoisted to the top of their scope and initialized with a value of undefined(special type).
- Variables declared using let are hoisted to the top of their scope but are not initialized with any value
- Variables declared using const are hoisted to the top of their scope but are not initialized with any value.

Some examples:

**For var** 
```js 
console.log(x); // prints undefined
var x = 100;
console.log(x); //prints 100
```

*Results:*
```
undefined
100
```

**For let**
```js 
console.log(y); //Reference error
let y = 200;
console.log(y); //prints 200
```

*Results:*
```
/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_103_107.js:1
console.log(y); //Reference error
            ^

ReferenceError: Cannot access 'y' before initialization
    at Object.<anonymous> (/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_103_107.js:1:13)
    at Module._compile (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1254:14)
    at Module._extensions..js (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1308:10)
    at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1117:32)
    at Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:958:12)
    at Function.executeUserEntryPoint [as runMain] (node:internal/modules/run_main:81:12)
    at node:internal/main/run_main_module:23:47

Node.js v18.15.0
```

**For const**
```js 
console.log(z); //Reference error
const z = 300;
console.log(z); //prints 300
```

*Results:*
```
/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_128_132.js:1
console.log(z); //Reference error
            ^

ReferenceError: Cannot access 'z' before initialization
    at Object.<anonymous> (/tmp/mdeval/declarationmd_128_132.js:1:13)
    at Module._compile (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1254:14)
    at Module._extensions..js (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1308:10)
    at Module.load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:1117:32)
    at Module._load (node:internal/modules/cjs/loader:958:12)
    at Function.executeUserEntryPoint [as runMain] (node:internal/modules/run_main:81:12)
    at node:internal/main/run_main_module:23:47

Node.js v18.15.0
```

**More example** 
```js 
var a = 10;
{
    var a = -10;
}
let b = a;
{
    let b = -20;
}

console.log(b)
```

*Results:* `-10`
